.TH TIX 1 "February 2026" "tix" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
tix \- git\-based ticket management for software projects
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tix
.I command
.RI [ args... ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B tix
is a high\-performance CLI tool for managing tasks, issues, and notes inside
a git repository.
Tickets are stored as append\-only JSONL in
.BR plan.jsonl ,
which is committed alongside source code.
A local SQLite cache provides fast reads and query support.
.PP
All mutating commands append to
.B plan.jsonl
and update the local cache.
.B tix
never auto\-commits; the user (or orchestrator) decides when to commit.
.PP
Output is JSON on stdout for machine consumption, except for
.BR status ,
.BR report ,
.BR tree ,
and
.BR init ,
which produce human\-readable text.
Errors are written to stderr.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Initialization
.TP
.B tix init
Initialize
.B .tix/
in the current git repository.
Creates the config, plan file, SQLite cache, and updates
.BR .gitignore .
See
.BR tix\-init (1).
.SS Task Management
.TP
.BI "tix task " "sub [args]"
Task operations.
Subcommands:
.BR add ,
.BR done ,
.BR accept ,
.BR reject ,
.BR delete ,
.BR prioritize ,
.BR update .
See
.BR tix\-task (1).
.SS Issue Management
.TP
.BI "tix issue " "sub [args]"
Issue operations.
Subcommands:
.BR add ,
.BR done ,
.BR done\-all ,
.BR done\-ids .
See
.BR tix\-issue (1).
.SS Note Management
.TP
.BI "tix note " "sub [args]"
Note operations.
Subcommands:
.BR add ,
.BR list ,
.BR done .
See
.BR tix\-note (1).
.SS Querying
.TP
.BI "tix q " """tql\-query"""
Execute a TQL pipeline query.
This is the primary query interface for agents and scripts.
See
.BR tix\-query (1)
and
.BR tql (7).
.TP
.BI "tix q sql " """sql\-query"""
Execute raw SQL against the ticket cache.
Only
.B SELECT
and
.B WITH
statements are allowed.
See
.BR tix\-query (1).
.TP
.BI "tix query " "[tasks|issues|full] [--flags]"
Legacy filter\-based query.
See
.BR tix\-query (1).
.SS Reporting
.TP
.B tix status
Human\-readable dashboard showing task progress, open issues, and
reference integrity.
.TP
.BI "tix report " "[velocity|actors|models]"
Generate reports on project progress, agent throughput, cost, and
model usage.
See
.BR tix\-report (1).
.SS Navigation
.TP
.B tix log
Show git history of plan.jsonl changes as a JSON array.
Returns up to 20 commits with hash, author, message, and timestamp.
.TP
.BI "tix tree " "[id]"
Render ASCII dependency trees.
If
.I id
is given, show the tree rooted at that ticket.
Otherwise show all trees.
.TP
.BI "tix search " "query"
Search tickets by keywords.
Returns scored results and a keyword cloud as JSON.
.SS Integrity
.TP
.B tix validate
Check ticket graph integrity: broken references, orphan dependencies,
missing names, invalid IDs.
Exits 0 if valid, 1 if errors found.
Suitable as a CI gate.
.SS Batch Operations
.TP
.BI "tix batch " "file|json"
Execute multiple operations from a JSON array (inline or from a file).
See
.BR tix\-batch (1).
.SS Cache Management
.TP
.BI "tix sync " "[branch] [--all]"
Rebuild the SQLite cache by replaying git history.
With no arguments, syncs the current branch.
With
.IR branch ,
syncs a specific branch.
With
.BR \-\-all ,
syncs all branches.
.TP
.B tix compact
Full sync followed by plan.jsonl compaction.
Removes historical cruft, deduplicates, and denormalizes references.
.SH TICKET TYPES
.TP
.B Task
A unit of work with a lifecycle:
.IR pending " \(-> " done " \(-> " accepted .
Tasks support dependencies, priorities, labels, specs, and agent telemetry.
ID prefix:
.BR T\- .
.TP
.B Issue
A bug report or problem.
No lifecycle\(emissues are either open (pending) or resolved (deleted).
ID prefix:
.BR I\- .
.TP
.B Note
Ephemeral information.
Notes are listed or archived (deleted).
ID prefix:
.BR N\- .
.SH ID FORMAT
Ticket IDs are 10 characters:
a type prefix, a hyphen, and 8 hex digits.
.PP
.RS
.nf
T\-a1b2c3d4    task
I\-e5f67890    issue
N\-1a2b3c4d    note
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Command succeeded.
.TP
.B 1
Command failed.
Error details are on stderr.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B TIX_LOG
Set log level.
Values:
.BR error ,
.BR warn ,
.BR info ,
.BR debug ,
.BR trace .
Logs are written to stderr.
.SH FILES
.TP
.B .tix/
Per\-repository tix directory (created by
.BR "tix init" ).
.TP
.B .tix/config.toml
Configuration file.
Settings:
.BR plan_path ,
.BR main_branch ,
.BR color .
.TP
.B .tix/cache.db
SQLite cache (gitignored).
Rebuilt automatically from plan.jsonl when stale.
.TP
.B plan.jsonl
Append\-only ticket store.
Git\-tracked, committed with source code.
Default location is
.BR .tix/plan.jsonl ;
configurable.
See
.BR tix\-plan (5).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR tix\-task (1),
.BR tix\-issue (1),
.BR tix\-note (1),
.BR tix\-query (1),
.BR tix\-report (1),
.BR tql (7),
.BR tix\-plan (5)
